in half an hour see that's Matt thank
you very much indeed
now then at 7:19 doctor he returns to
our screens next weekend course along
with his TARDIS the sonic screwdriver
and plastic monsters they plastic I
guess there's no real in real life one
scientist has been looking more closely
at some of the fanciful plots and ideas
from the program's 40-year history it is
discovered that many of them are now
more fact than fiction the monsters the
teleporting TARDIS the sonic screwdriver
and they're all on show in Cardiff with
a famous star attraction they are as you
can see the Daleks
they've been terrifying kids for more
than 40 years in Doctor Who but is there
any science fact behind the science
fiction well one man has come up with
some rather surprising conclusions that
particular question
that's a sonic screwdriver by the way
when it began the show was meant to be
both scary and educational we have three
intruders and dr. Paul Parsons says even
some of its most outlandish ideas are
now in a way reality
take teleportation now teleportation
that's complete science-fiction isn't it
well in actual fact there's a team in
Austria who have actually managed to
teleport individual atoms of matter
across the laboratory
well what about say free whole human
being well obviously your body's made up
of billions and billions of these atoms
and so it's a heck of a lot of
information so you'd probably be looking
at about a billion years to transmit all
that information you know from one place
to another so not just yet it could be
quite a way one thing people have always
laughed at is the Dalek seemingly an
intergalactic killing machine that's
conquered planets that can't climb
stairs well indeed in the new series in
fact the Daleks acquire the part of
flies they can fly upstairs and they can
fly after their victims that's pure
science fiction there well again not
necessarily there's actually a
researcher over in Finland and he thinks
he's constructed an antigravity device
so perhaps that could be the basis
Daleks actually fly now how about this
one the famous Doctor Who's sonic
screwdriver this is nice isn't it well
again I mean this is something that
people are talking about using inside
computers actually to sort of speed up
the motor rather spin the other discs
inside computer hard drives and levitate
them and also in factories factories are
using them as well for fastening
components in
now but how about a doctor who won that
an open locks at 10 yards and things
like that to do that you need a bit more
power you're putting in a nuclear power
station in your pocket so even the sonic
screwdriver wasn't quite such a daft
idea and there are many more but it's
not unusual indeed many believe science
is often fed by the ideas of science
fiction well I think a lot of science
fiction material does actually give
people an imaginable kind of future that
they can work to for example if you look
at Star Trek in the nineteen sixties the
first a series of Star Trek that they're
actually using mobile phones at a time
when in fact they were unheard of so
very good signpost there for the future
indeed as scientists develop more and
more electronic and mechanical body
parts the new show returns with villains
dreamt up by a scientific advisor in the
60s who foresaw such technology in its
most extreme form they are of course
Cybermen David cielito ABC News now then